Gaia Rally. When racing, users are able to "drive" their cars on a simple track in which numerous obstacles appear. ===Cards & Slots=== Gaia Cards and Gaia Slots are two Casino-themed games. In essence, Cards is a game of Blackjack while Slots is simply a slot machine game. To play these games, users must first purchase Tokens from the Ticket Booth at Gold Mountain Casino. Tokens are also a regular prize from the Daily Chance, and can also be bought and sold on Marketplace. Users receive Tickets from playing Cards or Slots, which can be traded for exclusive prizes at the Ticket store, "Prize and Joy". ===Booty Grab=== Booty Grab is a mini-game available when a user's Aquarium fish are "glowing". In the game, the glowing fish swim around at the top of the screen dropping coins, while the user holds a Overseer shell at the bottom of the screen and moves left and right to catch as many coins as possible. Various power-ups and power-downs can be collected during the game, such as time extension/deduction, increase/decrease speed, increase/decrease coin value (coin multiplier), and increase/decrease shell size. The value of coins dropped vary depending on the fish, as some fish drop coins that are worth more than normal coins. Coins of a higher value appear with a red, green, or blue glowing outline. ===Tiles=== Tiles is a mini game in which players must clear out a board of tiles by making tile chains, clearing out tiles yields a payout of tickets. In order to make a chain players much connect card that have a similar background or foreground character, tiles can be mixed in various ways as long as at either the foreground or background match. The in game side bar will show how long the chains must be in order to count as a completed chain, as well as how many chains are needed to complete the level. If the chain is too short a fire tile will be dropped, for every move after that the fire card will burn through another card until the burning card reaches the bottom, at which point the game is over. Once players have completed the level, the players will have the option to continue to the next level by putting their tickets won on the line or they can leave, keeping their current winnings. ===Word Bump=== In Word Bump players win gold by matching various tiles. The tiles have letters in them and can be chained together to make words. The object is to get the golden tiles to the top of the board, before the reach the bottom and disappear. If the tiles fall too low the game will end. Besides the main gold tiles that spell the object word, the other tiles are red, blue and yellow. The game is won by successfully “bumping” the golden tiles to the top of the board. Another row of tiles is added after a small amount of time, giving players only a few seconds to make words. By completing words in yellow, red or blue, players are awarded with power for the power up gauge. The power up gauge consists of 3 clear orbs which fill with color as a word is completed in either red, blue, or yellow. If players successfully fill an orb, they are given on of the following power ups: ===Jigsaw=== Players choose from various Gaia related images, once an image has been selected it is broken up into various pieces. The number of pieces the images is broken up into is dependent upon which difficulty has been selected (Easy has 30, Normal 70, Hard 120 and insane has 300 tiny pieces). The harder difficulties yield more gold and a higher chance of obtaining items. Other factors in the reward ammout are the number of times played in a day and the longer the time to complete a puzzle. ===Electric Love Faktori=== The object of the game is to connect similar colored ends to complete circuit section, the circuit sections have to connect to circuit ends (which look like blue volts in random placement at the edges of the circuit board). In order to gain power ups from within the game players must complete a circuit with the at least part of the complete circuit passing through a “?” (Power ups can also be obtained via the market place). Power ups can be any one of the following: * Removing red volts that obstruct the path. * Freezing the power meter for several seconds. * Doubling the score of the next completed circuit. The game has three difficulty options: Easy, Medium, and Hard. Depending on the difficulty chosen red volts appear more often and make the completion of circuits more difficult. Also added to other difficulties is a more mixed up color selection for the colored ends making connections much more difficult to make. It is important to note that higher difficulties yield more gold. There is an option to "reset circuits" if a puzzle is to difficult, doing so removes 10 percent of the power meter. Once the power meter reaches zero the game is over, the power meter can be replenished by small amounts upon completion of circuits. Bigger circuit completion yields a bigger replenishment to the meter. ===Pinball=== In this game players play pinball that is themed after various events and characters in the Gaia world. Barton town is the main focus of the game, but many other areas and characters are present. Among the items on the pinball table are: Grunnies: hit these to increase the field multiplier. Players must knock all three Grunnies out in order to move the multiplier up. Gambino’s Mansion: destroying and rebuilding the mansion gives players gold to spend in the Barton Boutique. The gold can only be used to buy power ups from within the game. Von Helson Mansion: every time players rebuild the Gambino Mansion they will see that one of the letters to the word “GAIA”, in 