He was defeated by Taiyoh, Jay, Machine Commander Robo V and Shuttle Robo. ==Mecha== ===Machine Robo=== The Machine Robos were special AI-Operated units of the MRR created by both Brad Bitou and Tôru Suidôbashi for rescue purposes. Each of the Machine Robos has their special job in handling different rescue situations. Each Machine Robo can use the '''Zone Tenkai''' (lit. '''Zone Expand''') command to entrap the Disaster unit so the rest of the MRR can proceed with their rescue duties. In order to change into Hyper Mode, the Robo Master gives the voice command '''"'''''(name of Leader Robo (Jet, Police, Drill, etc.))'' '''Robo! Hyper Mode! Gattai Hajime!"''' This translates to '''"'''''(name of Leader Robo (Jet, Police, Drill, etc.))'' '''Robo! Hyper Mode! Begin Fusion!"''' While working for the Disasters, Jay uses the command '''"Stealth Robo! Hyper Mode! Gattai Kaishin!"''' to have Stealth Robo change into Hyper Mode. This translates to '''"Stealth Robo! Hyper Mode! Commence Fusion!"''' In Hyper Mode, a Machine Robo's most powerful attack is the '''Finger Flash'''. ; MR-01L Jet Robo/MR-S01L Shuttle Robo Robo Master: Taiyoh Ohzora Taiyoh's Machine Robo Partner, he is one of the special Machine Robos built for Aerial Rescues and sometimes help put out fires along with the Sky Robos. In Vehicle mode, he resembles a jet while he resembles blue Jet when he's in Robo Mode. When he was defeated by Stealth Robo out in space and crash landed on earth, he was remodeled for space rescues to beat Stealth Robo and to perform space rescues, he became Shuttle Robo and the Sky Robos became Space Robos. After Shuttle Robo's first mission in episodes 24-26, both Jet Robo and Shuttle Robo were used interchangeably depending on the situation at hand. With Taiyo's command, Jet Robo can combine with the Sky Robos to form Hyper Jet Robo or Shuttle Robo can combine with the Space Robos to become Hyper Shuttle Robo. His special attacks are '''Jet Puncher''' as Jet Robo and '''Shuttle Puncher''' and '''Beam Anchor''' as Shuttle Robo. Jet Robo's Design is possibly based on Blue Jet from Machine Robo: Revenge of Cronos. ; MR-04L Fire Robo Robo Master: Arias "Ace" Honoh Ace's Machine Robo Partner, he specializes on putting out fires. In Vehicle Mode, he resembles a Fire Truck. In Robo Mode, he carries two water guns that puts out certain fires. In Hyper mode, both water guns were mounted on the shoulders. He has the ability to put out fires with water and foam. He is also the only leader robo with ladies as his supporter robos. Ace gives the command to Fire Robo and the Aider Robos to combine to become Hyper Fire Robo. His special attack is '''Hydro Splasher'''. ; MR-05L Police Robo Robo Master: Makoto Aikawa Makoto's Machine Robo Partner, he is an expert on the road and on capturing criminals. He has a strong sense of Justice and knows what's wrong and what's right. In Vehicle Mode, he resembles a police car. In Hyper Mode, his chest area looks like Supercar Robo. When Makoto gives the command, Police Robo and the Bike Robos combine to form Hyper Police Robo.His special attack is '''Back Fire'''. ; MR-02L Gyro Robo Robo Master: Susumu and Tsuyoshi Utada Susumu and Tsuyoshi's Machine Robo Partner, he also has a strong sense of Justice like Police but a bit too much. He was sent to MRR after the New York incident. He is sometimes cocky. he is also the only robo with 2 robo masters. In Vehicle Mode, he resembles a Gyro Jet. In Robo Mode, the Gyro wings became arms which he also use for flying. When either both Susumu and Tsuyoshi gave the command, Gyro Robo and the Helicopter Robos combine to form Hyper Gyro Robo. His special attack is '''Gyro Shooter'''. ; MR-03L Drill Robo Robo Master: Daichi Hayami Daichi's Machine Robo Partner, he is the odd ball of the group. Sometimes acting like a Kabuki performer, he is specially designed to drill through the earth and performs extreme rescue situations. In one episode, it reveals that he wasn't built for underwater conditions. He is, in fact, the strongest among the leader robos. In Vehicle Mode, he resembles a Drill Tank. In Robo Mode, he somehow has a strange resemblance to Rod Drill. Daichi gives the command to him and the Dozer Robos to form Hyper Drill Robo. His special attack is '''Drill Attack'''. Just like Jet Robo, his design may also be based on Rod Drill from Machine Robo: Revenge of Cronos. ; MR-06L Submarine Robo Robo Master: Shoh Ashikawa Sho's Machine Robo Partner, he is a Machine Robo who specializes in Underwater Rescues. He has a cool, laid-back personality and can understand the animals of the ocean. He also really loves the ocean. In Vehicle Mode, he resembles a Submarine/Powerboat Hybrid. In Robo and Hyper modes, he is like Police Robo except for the different features and design. When Sho gives the command, Submarine Robo and the Aqua Robos combine together to form Hyper Submarine Robo. His special attack is '''Bubble Smash'''. ; MR-00L Stealth Robo/MR-V00L V-Stealth Robo Robo Master: Jay He was the original Machine Robo who all the Machine Robo were based on. When he's activated once, he almost destroyed the facility so he was deactivated until the Disasters got a hold of him and Jay chose him to be his Robo Master. Originally, Stealth Robo is colored purple in all Vehicle, Robo and Hyper Modes and can unleash powerful beam blasts and missiles when he's Hyper Stealth Robo. But after Jay left the Disasters, the MRR remodeled him to become V-Stealth Robo, now colored white with purple accents. He may have the same ability as Stealth Robo but the 4 Tank Robos that combine with it were replaced with a special booster wing pack that combines with V-Stealth Robo to form Hyper V-Stealth Robo. This is because the 4 tank robos were destroyed by BL Hyper Drill Robo while he was holding the almost collapsing tower. 