an alloy of copper and tin, and brass, an alloy of copper and zinc. Copper is a very durable metal, withstanding corrosion when forming a green patina, copper sulfate. Sheet copper used as roofing is lighter than wooden shingles and much lighter than slate, tile, or lead. Roofing copper can be folded readily into waterproof seams, or shaped over curved frameworks for cupolas and domes. The initial cost of copper was traditionally high, but its length of service more than compensated for the price. Copper could also be shaped to the bends and angles around chimneys and at roof edges and dormers. All nails, screws, bolts, and cleats used with sheet copper had to be made of copper or a copper alloy; otherwise “galvanic” action between the dissimilar metals would occur, causing deterioration. <ref>Gayle, Margot and Waite, John G. ''Metals in America's Historic Buildings: Uses and Preservation Treatments'', 1980, pages 22-34</ref> Copper was also used for decorative purposes, including architectural ornaments or sculptures. A very famous example of this is the Statue of Liberty. With aging it turns a deep light green color. ===Nickel and Nickel Alloys=== Although somewhat rare, nickel has been used for plating architectural details. Nickel is most frequently used for building components in the form of alloys: nickel silver, Monel metal, and stainless steel. Nickel silver was originally called “German Silver,” until World War I. It has been called “white brass” but probably should be termed “nickel brass,” because it generally contains 75% copper, 20% nickel, and 5% zinc. Different percentages result in a range of colors, including silvery-white, yellow, slight blue, green or pink. Nickel silver hardware was popular in the United States during the Art Deco and Depression Modern periods. Architects and designers preferred nickel silver because it could take and retain appropriate finishes, and it resisted corrosion. <ref>Gayle, Margot and Waite, John G. ''Metals in America's Historic Buildings: Uses and Preservation Treatments'', 1980, page 35</ref> Monel metal is an alloy of approximately two-thirds nickel and one-third copper. It is similar to platinum in color. Monel pioneered many of the present uses of stainless steel. The first architectural use of Monel was for roofing of the Pennsylvania Railroad Terminal in New York City in 1909. In 1936, the copper roof on the New York City Public Library at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street was replaced with a Monel metal roof. Its advantages as a roofing material included its ability to be brazed, welded, or soldered in place to provide a watertight, continuous cover. Monel was popular during the Art Deco periods. During World War II, however, large quantities of nickel and copper had to be diverted to the war effort and the supply of Monel was greatly reduced. Following the war, stainless steel and aluminium replaced Monel because of lower production costs. <ref>Gayle, Margot and Waite, John G. ''Metals in America's Historic Buildings: Uses and Preservation Treatments'', 1980, pages 35-40</ref> ===Iron and Iron Alloys=== Iron has become an important architectural building component. It has been used in four common forms: wrought iron, cast iron, sheet iron, and steel.<ref>Gayle, Margot and Waite, John G. ''Metals in America's Historic Buildings: Uses and Preservation Treatments'', 1980, pages 42-83</ref> Wrought iron was used for minor structural and decorative elements starting in the 18th century. Until the mid-19th century, the use of wrought iron in buildings was generally limited to small items such as tie rods, straps, nails, and hardware, or to decorative ironwork in balconies, railings fences and gates. Around 1850 its structural use became more widespread as iron mills began to roll rails, bulb-tees, and eventually I-beams. It was also used for decorative purposes, such as ornamental balconies or hardware. Since wrought iron is handmade, no two pieces are identical. Cast iron was a major 19th century building material of the Industrial Revolution. Although brittle, it is remarkably strong in compression. It was frequently used for structural purposes, such as columns,, building fronts, domes and light courts. Decorative uses have included stairs, elevators, lintels, grilles, verandas, balconies, railings, fences, streetlights, and tombs. The Bradbury Building is one example of extensive decorative cast iron use. Today, cast iron is used for plumbing fixtures and piping in new construction, and its structural and decorative use is used occasionally through historic preservation practices. Sheet iron can be subject to rapid corrosion, forming rust. Sheet iron was used throughout the 19th century, although it is not clear how widespread sheet iron roofs became. Pressed decorative sheet iron used for ceilings was frequently called a “tin ceiling,” although tin was generally not present for indoor uses. Steel was introduced to the construction industry at the end of the 19th century. The development of structural steel in the mid-19th century allowed tall buildings to be constructed. Builders and manufacturers turned to steel, which was stronger than cast iron in compression and wrought iron in tension. when the Bessemer process was developed in England in 1856, and the open-hearth process was invented, steel was produced in a quantity that allowed it to be economical. Bridges, railroad companies, and skyscrapers were among the first large-scale uses of structural steel. Although iron and steel are not combustible, they lose strength in a fire if they are not protected from the heat. Almost all structural steel has to be “fireproofed” in some manner, utilizing a cladding of terra-cotta, tile, plaster- poured concrete, sprayed concrete, or sprayed insulation. Ferro concrete, also called reinforced concrete, was developed in the late 19th century when steel wire was added to concrete. Decorative steels used in buildings include: * Stainless steel, a chromium-nickel steel, developed between 1903 and 1912. Its most important property is its resistance to corrosion. It contains about 18% chromium and 8-12% nickel. Stainless steel is expensive, so it was used primarily as a nonstructural metal or where there is a high potential for corrosion. One of the most extensive early uses of stainless steel was in the Chrysler Building. * Copper-bearing steels, containing from .15% to .25% copper, 