they are analytical concepts, they serve as reference points in interpreting the meaning of society’s heterogeneous and polymorphous activities. In other words, ideal-types are simplified and typified empirical reality, but they are not reality in themselves. Bureaucracy, authority, religion, etc. are all ideal-types, according to Weber, and do not exist in the real world. They assist social scientists in selecting culturally significant elements of a larger whole which can be contrasted with each other to demonstrate their interrelationship, patterns of formation, and similar societal functions. Weber’s selected ideal-types - bureaucracy, religion, and capitalism - are culturally significant variables through which he demonstrated show multiple functionalities of social behavior. Similarly, Weber emphasizes that Marxist laws are also ideal-types. The concept of class, economy, capitalism, proletariat and bourgeoisie, revolution and state, along with other Marxian models are heuristic tools for understanding a society in its context. Thus, according to Weber, Marxist ideal-types could prove fruitful only if used to access a given society. However, Weber warns of dangerousness or perniciousness in relation to Marxist ideal-types when seen as empirical reality. The reason is that Marxist practitioners have imposed analytical concepts as ahistorical and universal categories to reduce concrete-process and activities from the polymorphous actions into a simplified phenomenon. This renders social phenomena not only ahistorical but also devoid of spatio-temporal rigour, decontextualized, and categorizes chaos and ruptures under the general label of bourgeoisie exploitation. In fact, history emerged as a metanarrative of a class struggle, moving in a chronological order, and future anticipated as a revolutionary overthrow of state apparatuses by the workers. For instance, the state as an ideal-type imported to the physical world has deceived and diverted political activism away from the real sites of power such as corporations and discourses. Similarly class as an ideal-type, projected to a society, which is an ensemble of population, becomes dangerous because it marginalizes and undermines organic linkages of kinship, language, race, and ethnicity. This is a significant point because society is not composed of two conflicting classes, bourgeoisie and proletariat, and does not just have vicissitudes along economic lines. It does not exist in binaries, as Marxist ideal-types would suppose. In fact, it is a reality in which people of various denominations - class backgrounds, religious affiliations, kinship and family ties, gender, and ethnic and linguistic differences - do not only experience conflict, but also practice cooperation in everyday life. Thus when one inserts ideal-types into this concrete dynamic process one does categorical violence to multifariousness of the population and similarly reduces feeling, emotions, non-economic social standing such as honor, and status, as Weber describes, to economism. Moreover, the ideal-types should also be treated relevant to a context that defines and delimits the former's parameters. Weber’s intervention came at the right moment when Marxism - particularly vulgar Marxism - reduced "non-economic" practices and beliefs, the superstructure, to a determined base, the mode of production. Similarly, speculative philosophy imposed its own metaphysical categories on diverse concrete realities thus making a particular instance ahistorical. Weber approaches both the methods, materialist and purely idealist, as “equally possible, but each, of it does not serve as the preparation, but as the conclusion of an investigation.”<ref>Max Weber. (1978). ''Max Weber: Selections.'' Trans. Eric Matthews. Ed. W. G. Runciman. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 172.</ref> To prove this point, Weber demonstrated how ethics and morality played a significant role in the rise of modern capitalism. The protestant work ethic, for instance, functioned as sophisticated mechanism that encouraged population to “care for the self,” which served as an underpinning social activity for bourgeois capitalism. Of course, work ethics was not the only element, utilitarian philosophy equally contributed in forming a bureaucratic work culture whose side-effects are all too well known to the modern world. In response to the reductive approach of economism or vulgar Marxism, as it is also known, [[Louis Althusser]] and [[Raymond Williams]] introduced new understanding to Marxist thought. Althusser and Williams introduced politics and culture as new entry points alongside the mode of production in Marxist methodology. However, there is a sharp contrast between the scholars’ arguments. Taking Williams as our point of discussion, he criticizes the mechanistic approach to Marxism that encourages a close reading of Marxian concepts. Concepts such as being, consciousness, class, capital, labor, labor power, commodity, economy, politics, etc. are not closed categories but rather interactive, engaging, and open practices or praxis.<ref>Raymond Williams. (1972). ''Marxism and Literature.'' Oxford: Oxford University Press.</ref> Althusser, on the other hand, proposes ‘overdetermination’ as multiple forces rather than isolated single force or modes of production. However, he argues that the economy is “determinant in the last instance.”<ref>Louis Althusser. (2005 [1965]). ''For Marx.'' Trans. Ben Brewster. New York: Verso Books.</ref> == Closed Systems == In anthropology, the term 'system' is used widely for describing socio-cultural phenomena of a given society in a [[holistic]] way. For instance, kinship system, marriage system, cultural system, religious system, totemic system, etc. This systemic approach to a society shows the anxieties of the earliest anthropologists to capture the reality without reducing the complexity of a given community. In their quest of searching the underline pattern of a reality, they "discovered" the kinship system as a fundamental structure of the natives. However, their systems are closed systems because they reduce the complexity and fluidity by imposing anthropological concepts such as [[genealogy]], [[kinship]], heredity, marriage. === Cultural Relativism === [[Franz Boas]] was the first anthropologist to problematize the notion of culture. Challenging the modern hegemony of culture, Boas introduced the idea of cultural relativism (understanding culture in its context). Drawing on his extensive fieldwork in the northwestern United States and British Columbia, Boas discusses culture separate from physical environment, biology, and most importantly discarded evolutionary models that represent civilization as a progressive entity following chronological development. Moreover, cultural boundaries, according to Boas, are not barriers to intermixing and should not be seen as obstacle to multiculturalism. In fact, boundaries must be seen as “porous and permeable,” and “pluralized.”<ref>Ira Bashkow, “A Neo-Boasian Conception of Cultural Boundaries,” 137</ref> 