not have full access to curtained memory. The exact implementation details are vendor specific; Intel's Trusted Execution Technology already offers this feature. ===Sealed storage=== Sealed storage protects private information by binding it to platform configuration information including the software and hardware being used. This means the data can be released only to a particular combination of software and hardware. Sealed storage can be used for [[Digital rights management|DRM]] enforcing. For example, users who keep a song on their computer that has not been licensed to be listened will not be able to play it. Currently, a user can locate the song, listen to it, and send it to someone else, play it in the software of their choice, or back it up (and in some cases, use circumvention software to decrypt it). Alternatively, the user may use software to modify the operating system's DRM routines to have it leak the song data once, say, a temporary license was acquired. Using sealed storage, the song is securely encrypted using a key bound to the trusted platform module so that only the unmodified and untampered music player on his or her computer can play it. In this DRM architecture, this will prevent people from buying a new computer, or upgrading parts of their current one except after explicit permission of the vendor of the old computer. ===Remote attestation===<!-- This section is linked from [[Trusted Computing]] --> Remote attestation allows changes to the user's computer to be detected by authorized parties. For example, software companies can identify unauthorized changes to software, including users tampering with their software to circumvent technological protection measures. It works by having the hardware generate a certificate stating what software is currently running. The computer can then present this certificate to a remote party to show that unaltered software is currently executing. Remote attestation is usually combined with public-key encryption so that the information sent can only be read by the programs that presented and requested the attestation, and not by an eavesdropper. To take the song example again, the user's music player software could send the song to other machines, but only if they could attest that they were running a secure copy of the music player software. Combined with the other technologies, this provides a more secured path for the music: secure I/O prevents the user from recording it as it is transmitted to the audio subsystem, memory curtaining prevents it from being dumped to regular disk files as it is being worked on, sealed storage curtails unauthorized access to it when saved to the hard drive, and remote attestation protects it from unauthorized software even when it is used on other computers. Sending Remote attestation data to a trusted third party , however, has been discouraged in favour of [[Direct anonymous attestation]]. ===Trusted third party=== {{cleanup|section|date=May 2010}} One of the main obstacles that had to be overcome by the developers of the TCG technology was how to maintain anonymity while still providing a “trusted platform”. The main object of obtaining “trusted mode” is that the other party (let's call it Bob), with whom a computer (let's call it Alice) may be communicating, can trust that 'Alice' is running un-tampered hardware and software. This will assure the other party (Bob) that the entity he or she is communicating with (Alice) will not be able to use malicious software to compromise sensitive information on the computer. The consequence of this process is that in order to do this, you have to inform the other party that you are using registered and “safe” software and hardware, thereby potentially uniquely identifying yourself to the other party. This might not be a problem where one wishes to be identified by the other party, e.g., if the user is doing banking transactions over the Internet. But in many other types of communicating activities over the Internet people enjoy the anonymity that the computer provides. The TCG acknowledges this, and allegedly have developed a process of attaining such anonymity but at the same time assuring the other party that he or she is communicating with a “trusted” party. This was done by developing a “trusted third party”. This entity will work as an intermediary between a user and his own computer and between a user and other users. In this essay the focus will be on the latter process, a process referred to as remote attestation. When a user requires an AIK (Attestation Identity Key) the user wants its key to be certified by a CA (certification Authority). The user through a TPM (Trusted Platform Module) sends three credentials: a public key credential, a platform credential, and a conformance credential. This set of certificates and cryptographic keys will in short be referred to as "EK". The EK can be split into two main parts, the private part "EKpr" and the public part "EKpub". The EKpr never leaves the TPM. Disclosure of the EKpub is however necessary (version 1.1). The EKpub will uniquely identify the endorser of the platform, model, what kind of software is currently being used on the platform, details of the TPM, and that the platform (PC) complies with the TCG specifications . If this information is communicated directly to another party as a process of getting trusted status it would at the same time be impossible to obtain an anonymous identity. Therefore this information is sent to the privacy certification authority, (trusted third party). When the C.A (Privacy certification Authority) receives the EKpub sent by the TPM, the C.A verifies the information. If the information can be verified it will create a certified secondary key pair AIK, and sends this credential back to the requestor. This is intended to provide the user with anonymity. When the user has this certified AIK, he or she can use it to communicate with other trusted platforms. In version 1.2, the TCG have developed a new method of obtaining a certified AIK. This process is called DAA [[Direct anonymous attestation]]. This method does not 