showing that different explanations of analyticity are circular. The main purpose is to show that no satisfactory explanation of analyticity has been given. Quine begins by making a distinction between two different classes of analytic statements. The first one is called logically true and has the form: :(1) No unmarried man is married A sentence with that form is true independent of the interpretation of "man" and "married", so long as the logical particles "no", "un-", "is" and "and" have their ordinary English meaning. The statements in the second class have the form: :(2) No bachelor is married. A statement with this form can be turned into a statement with form (1) by changing [[synonyms]] with synonyms, in this case "bachelor" with "unmarried man". It is the second class of statements that lack characterization according to Quine. The notion of the second form of analyticity leans on the notion of synonymy, which Quine believes is in as much need of clarification as analyticity. Most of Quine's following arguments are focused on showing how explanations of synonymy end up being dependent on the notions of analyticity, necessity, or even synonymy itself. How do we reduce sentences from the second class to a sentence of class (1)? Some might propose ''definitions''. "No bachelor is married" can be turned into "No unmarried man is married" because "bachelor" is defined as "unmarried man". But, Quine asks: how do we find out that "bachelor" is defined as "unmarried man"? Clearly, a dictionary would not solve the problem, as a dictionary is a report of already known synonyms, and thus is dependent on the notion of synonymy, which Quine holds as unexplained. A second suggestion Quine considers is an explanation of synonymy in terms of interchangeability. Two linguistic forms are (according to this view) synonymous if they are interchangeable without changing the [[truth-value]]. That is, in all contexts without change of [[truth value]]. But consider the following example: :(3) "Bachelor" has fewer than ten letters. Obviously "bachelor" and "unmarried man" are not interchangeable in that sentence. To exclude that example and some other obvious counterexamples, such as poetic quality, Quine introduces the notion of ''cognitive synonymy''. But does interchangeability hold as an explanation of [[cognitive synonymy]]? Suppose we have a language without [[wikt:Category:English modal adverbs | modal adverbs]] like "necessarily". Such a language would be [[Extension (semantics) | extensional]], in the way that two predicates which are true about the same objects are interchangeable again without altering the truth-value. Thus, there is no assurance that two terms that are interchangeable without the truth-value changing are interchangeable because of meaning, and not because of chance. For example, "creature with a heart" and "creature with kidneys" share extension. In a language with the modal adverb "necessarily" the problem is solved, as ''[[salva veritate]]'' holds in the following case: :(4) Necessarily all and only bachelors are unmarried men while it does not hold for :(5) Necessarily all and only creatures with a heart are creatures with kidneys. We can see that the concepts of 'creature with a heart' and 'creature with kidneys' have the same extension (presumably), but they are not interchangeable ''salva veritate''. It seems that the only way to assert the synonymy is by supposing that the terms 'bachelor' and 'unmarried man' are synonymous and that the sentence "All and only all bachelors are unmarried men" is analytic. So for ''salva veritate'' to hold as a definition of synonymy, we need a notion of necessity and thus of analyticity. So, from the above example, it can be seen that in order for us to distinguish between analytic and synthetic we must appeal to synonymy; at the same time, we should also understand synonymy with interchangeability ''salva veritate''. However, such a condition to understand synonymy is not enough so we not only argue that the terms should be interchangeable, but necessarily so. And to explain this logical necessity we must appeal to analyticity once again. ==Reductionism== Analyticity would be acceptable if we allowed for the [[verification theory]] of meaning: an analytic statement would be one synonymous with a [[logical truth]], which would be an extreme case of meaning where empirical verification is not needed. "So, if the verification theory can be accepted as an adequate account of statement synonymy, the notion of analyticity is saved after all." The problem that naturally follows is how statements are to be verified. An empiricist would say that it can only be done using empirical evidence. So some form of reductionism - "the belief that each meaningful statement is equivalent to some logical construct upon terms which refer to immediate experience" - must be assumed in order for an empiricist to 'save' the notion of analyticity. Such reductionism, says Quine, presents just as intractable a problem as did analyticity. In order to prove that all meaningful statements can be translated into a sense-datum language, a reductionist would surely have to confront "the task of specifying a sense-datum language and showing how to translate the rest of significant discourse, statement by statement, into it." To illustrate the difficulty of doing so, Quine describes [[Rudolf Carnap]]'s attempt in his book ''Der logische Aufbau der Welt''. Quine first observes that Carnap's starting point was not the strictest possible, as his "sense-datum language" included not only sense-events but also "the notations of logic, up through higher set theory... Empiricists there are who would boggle at such prodigality." Nonetheless, says Quine, Carnap showed great ingenuity in defining sensory concepts "which, but for his constructions, one would not have dreamed were definable on so slender a basis." However, even such admirable efforts left Carnap, by his own admission, far short of completing the whole project. Finally, Quine objects in principle to Carnap's proposed translation of statements like "quality q is at point-instant x;y;z;t" into his sense-datum language, because he does not define the connective "is at". Without statements of this kind, it is difficult to see, even in principle, how Carnap's project could have been completed. The difficulty 